# BIOMD0000000501: MODEL1311130000

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000501.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000501.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


Begitt2014 - STAT1 cooperative DNA binding - double GAS polymer model

The importance of STAT1-cooperative DNA binding in type 1 and type 2
interferon signalling has been studies using experimental and modelling
approaches. The authors have developed two ODE models to describe STAT1
binding to short promoter regions of DNA, namely "single GAS polymer model"
and "double GAS polymer model" considering binding to single or double GAS
sites, respectively. The length of DNA in the single GAS model was three sites
and four sites in double GAS model. This model correspond to the "double GAS
polymer model".

This model is described in the article:

[STAT1-cooperative DNA binding distinguishes type 1 from type 2 interferon
signaling.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/24413774)

Begitt A, Droescher M, Meyer T, Schmid CD, Baker M, Antunes F, Owen MR,
Naumann R, Decker T, Vinkemeier U

Nat Immunol. 2014 Feb;15(2):168-76.

Abstract:

STAT1 is an indispensable component of a heterotrimer (ISGF3) and a STAT1
homodimer (GAF) that function as transcription regulators in type 1 and type 2
interferon signaling, respectively. To investigate the importance of
STAT1-cooperative DNA binding, we generated gene-targeted mice expressing
cooperativity-deficient STAT1 with alanine substituted for Phe77. Neither
ISGF3 nor GAF bound DNA cooperatively in the STAT1F77A mouse strain, but type
1 and type 2 interferon responses were affected differently. Type 2
interferon-mediated transcription and antibacterial immunity essentially
disappeared owing to defective promoter recruitment of GAF. In contrast, STAT1
recruitment to ISGF3 binding sites and type 1 interferon-dependent responses,
including antiviral protection, remained intact. We conclude that STAT1
cooperativity is essential for its biological activity and underlies the
cellular responses to type 2, but not type 1 interferon.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[BIOMD0000000501](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/BIOMD0000000501) .

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024) .

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.


